# Operations In Gmail Using IMAP and SMTP
Communication is one of the important tools that aid us to connect with people. Either you are a student or a working professional, good communication is something that will connect you far ahead. It is the transfer of information, ideas that can be conducted in different ways. In this digitized world, communication became the heart of technology. Email is emerging as one of the most valuable services on the internet today. It allows us to transfer and receive message between multiple users. Email system is used everywhere in almost all organizations such as transport, bank, business, customers, and clients for better information privacy with people outside the organization, or from different geographical locations in the world.
A set of commands that authenticates and directs the transfer of e-mail is known as SMTP (simple mail transfer protocol). SMTP is a transportation protocol used to transfer e-mail messages over the Internet. It is an application layer protocol. The client who wants to send the mail opens a TCP connection to the SMTP server and then sends the mail across the connection. The SMTP server is an always-on listening mode. As soon as it listens for a TCP connection from any client, the SMTP process initiates a connection through port 25. After successfully establishing a TCP connection the client process sends the mail instantly. 
Most of the servers including, e-mail, g -mail, Yahoo, Rediff etc. uses SMTP to transfer message over the internet. In this report, the SMTP e-mail system protocol will be briefly explained. Python programming is implemented to transfer text, files, and images with the help of SMTP protocol.
IMAP stands for Internet Message Access Protocol. It is an application layer protocol which is used to receive the emails from the mail server. It also follows the client/server model. It even let us move mails between mailboxes, create directories within mailboxes, mark emails as read/unread, mark emails as important, search emails, etc.

